---
title: How To
layout: post
date: 2023-10-07 16:00:00 +05:30
---

## SafeSquid Implementation and Feature Guide

Use SafeSquid to securely distribute Internet access across your user network. This collection of How To articles provides a step-by-step guide to implement SafeSquid, and optimally use its various features.

## Install SafeSquid
### Setup Your Secure Web Gateway With SafeSquid Appliance Builder

Using SafeSquid Appliance Builder (SAB) is the most recommended method for setting up your secure web gateway. SAB is a customized distro of Ubuntu Linux. It enables you to quickly setup your secure web gateway on a standard Intel server hardware, or as a virtual appliance on any virtualization platform like VmWare or Hyper-V.

SAB automatically installs and configures all dependency libraries, and services. Of course you can fine-tune it it later to meet any special needs.

[Read more about Setup Your Secure Web Gateway With SafeSquid Appliance Builder](#)

### Preferred Linux distribution: Setup Your Secure Web Gateway on your preferred Linux distribution

SafeSquid Appliance Builder (SAB) is an optimized version of Ubuntu Linux, optimized for easy setup of your secure web gateway. The SAB installs the Ubuntu Linux operating system, downloads and deploys the SafeSquid for Linux installation package, and the necessary dependencies. SafeSquid can also be installed on any other Linux operating system like Red-Hat, SuSe, CentOS, etc.

[Read more about Setup Your Secure Web Gateway on your preferred Linux](#)

### How to setup virtualization environment for SafeSquid with VirtualBox.

VirtualBox is a powerful x86 and AMD64/Intel64 Virtualization Product. It can be used for Enterprise as well as for personal use. It is freely available and is an Open Source Software. It  runs on windows, Linux, Macintosh and Solar Host.

[Read more about How to setup virtualization environment for SafeSquid with VirtualBox](#)

### Upgrade SafeSquid To A Newer Version

SafeSquid SWG upgrade is a newer version of the SafeSquid that offers a significant change or major improvement over your current version. Upgrade your SafeSquid to the latest version which may consists of bugfixes and enhancements.

[Read more about Upgrade SafeSquid To A Newer Version](#)

## Access The SafeSquid User Interface

SafeSquid has an intrinsic Web GUI, that will enables you to manage your installation, policies required for setup, and also monitor your secure web gateway.

[Read more about Access The SafeSquid User Interface](#)

## HTTPS Inspection
#### Setup HTTPS Inspection

HTTPS Inspection is the standard Security technology for encrypting a connection between the client and web server. Enable HTTPS inspection on SafeSquid SWG to inspect HTTPS traffic that is encrypted by the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol. SafeSquid will do deep content inspection of encrypted HTTPS traffic. Further this encrypted content can be filtered easily.

[Read more about Setup HTTPS Inspection](#)

### Bypass HTTPS Inspection Using Request Types

[Read more about Bypass HTTPS Inspection Using Request Types](#)

## Manage Categories From Self Service Portal

[Read more about Manage Categories From Self Service Portal](#)

## Allow Specific Website

[Read more about Allow specific website through SafeSquid](#)

## Block Specific Website

[Read more about Block specific website through SafeSquid](#)

## Unblock the Blocked Website

[Read more about Unblock the blocked website](#)

## Enforce SafeSearch
### Google

[Read more about Enforce_Google_Safe_Search_On_SafeSquid_Proxy](#)

### Yahoo

[Read more about Enforce_Yahoo_Safe_Search_On_SafeSquid_Proxy](#)

### Bing

[Read more about Enforce_Bing_Safe_Search_On_SafeSquid_Proxy](#)

## Setup Authentication

[Read more about Authentication](#)

### IP based authentication

[Read more about Enable IP based authentication](#)

### Integrate AD or OpenLDAP with SafeSquid

Network enterprises that have a large number of users, popularly manage user credentials via a centralized system. The centralized system ensures user identification across all the networked enterprise resources and services. Users too benefit immensely, as they need a singular credential to access anything across the network enterprise. You can organize all users into groups based on IP addresses, user names or security group memberships in Microsoft Active Directory. Every group gets its own filtering exceptions and blocking rules. Authenticate your domain users using Kerberos, NTLM or Basic LDAP.

[Read more about Integrate AD or OpenLDAP with SafeSquid](#)

### Create User Groups based on network IP and LDAP (Active directory)

Setup your users into different User Groups. You can then set restriction policies for specifically these User Groups in the Access Profiles section.

[Read more about Create User Groups](#)

### Integrate a Linux Host with a Windows AD for Kerberos SSO authentication

Kerberos Authentication support is particularly useful for Enterprise networks that have a Microsoft AD based Domain controller. By properly configuring the necessary Kerberos related factors, your enterprise Internet users can optionally enjoy Windows Integrated Authentication. Windows Integrated Authentication is a non-interactive authentication process, that uses SSO authentication. SSO ensures that your users do not have to manually provide their user credentials as username / password to access your networked enterprise resources and services, yet their access is restricted as specified. SSO, thus not only just adds convenience to the overall user experience, but also enhances security.

[Read more about Integrate a Linux Host with a Windows AD for Kerberos SSO authentication](#)

### Adding Users using SafeSquid for Basic Authentication

If you don't have an LDAP server to integrate with SafeSquid, but you want to authenticate users by assigning usernames and passwords to your users.

[Read more about Adding users using SafeSquid interface for authentication](#)

### Bypass Authentication 

[Read more about Bypass Authentication](#)

## Block Personal Gmail And Allow Google Corporate Accounts

Block Personal Gmail to ensure Data Security. No sharing of confidential data with personal accounts. You may want to prevent users from signing into Google services using any accounts other than the accounts you provided them with. Auto logout when detected that user is logged into personal Gmail. You can set up SafeSquid to block the access to consumer Google accounts.

[Read more about Block Personal Gmail and Allow Google Corporate Accounts](#)

## Defend Against Internal Threats And Data Leakage

[Read more about Defend Against Internal Threats And Data Leakage](#)

### Data Leakage Prevention

#### Controlling Uploads

DLP module is primarily used to restrict/prevent uploads of confidential and critical information from any organization. You can select predefined content type(s) in DLP section to prevent their upload(s). You can create multiple policies in DLP section such that all the selected content types will be blocked when any end user tries to upload it.

[Read more about Controlling Uploads To Prevent Data Leakage](#)

## Defend Against External Threats

### Antivirus Engines

#### SvScan

[Read more about SvScan](#)

#### ClamAV

[Read more about Clam_antivirus](#)

#### ICAP

[Read more about ICAP](#)

### Block Virus Uploads And Downloads

Protect your network against viruses, Trojans, malware, and other threats. You can block virus uploads and downloads by using SafeSquid. SafeSquid is providing different types of antivirus setups.

[Read more about Block Virus Uploads And Downloads](#)

### Block Anonymous Proxies

An anonymous proxy will allow your users to surf the web anonymously, since it tunnels your data through servers that are spread out across the globe and involve other IP addresses. Anonymous Proxy service enhances your security and lets your users access some restricted websites online. You can block these proxies by using SafeSquid, so that no user access the blocked websites.

[Read more about Block Anonymous Proxies](#)

## Content Filtering

Prevent the users from accessing inappropriate content like pornography.

[Read more about Block an Unclassified Web-site by Identifying The True Nature of Served Content With SafeSquid](#)

### Block Advertisements And Banners

Security was the main reason cited for blocking advertisements. Advertisements can be annoying or intrusive. Blocking advertisements can result in quicker loading and cleaner looking web pages with fewer distractions, lower resource waste (bandwidth, CPU, memory, etc.). You can set up SafeSquid to block all types of annoying advertisements and banners.

[Read more about Block Advertisements](#)

### Block Third Party Cookies

You can block the cookies for third-party domains. Control tracking your activity across different sites and you can hide the referrer for third-party domains. Now the referrer is the same as the hostname. You can also hide the user agents for third-party domains. Instead of the original user agent, SafeSquid uses a default user agent (Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 5.5; Windows 98; Win 9x 4.90)).

[Read more about Block Third Party Cookies](#)

### Block Particular User Login To Facebook Or Gmail

Restrict selective login usernames from Facebook Or Gmail. Enable the default rule and modify your respective username with the default ones. Now, except for selected users, all can login into Facebook or Gmail.

[Read more about Block Particular User Login To Facebook or Gmail](#)

## Remote Applications

### Access Through SafeSquid

Some of the remote applications (remote desktop applications, Download managers) get blocked automatically when we enable HTTPS inspection in SafeSquid.

[Read more about Block remote desktop applications, Download managers for all users](#)

### Create Custom Templates

Create your own block template to show when any application or website is blocked by SafeSquid.

[Read more about Create Custom Templates](#)

### Caching Specific websites

Content Caching improves bandwidth efficiency. A page or file, when requested by a user, is served to the user and a copy of it is also maintained locally in the cache. So, when a request is made to fetch the same page or file, it is served with the local copy, instead of 'a fresh fetch'. SafeSquid has a very neat, efficient, and manageable Content Caching system.

[Read more about Caching Specific websites](#)

### Prefetch embedded images

[Read more about Prefetch embedded images](#)

## Facebook

### Facebook Read Only Mode

[Read more about Facebook Read Only Mode](#)

### Allowing Specific Page on Facebook

[Read more about Facebook specific page Allow](#)

### Discourage All Users from Login, Post, and Upload

[Read more about Discourage All users from Login, Post, Upload](#)

### Allow Social Networking Sites during Lunch Hours

Allow access to social networking sites during lunch hours for all users or for a specific group of people.

[Read more about Allow Social Networking Sites during Lunch Hours](#)

## YouTube

### YouTube Safety Mode On Gateway 

You Restricted mode helps you screen out potentially objectionable content that you may prefer not to see or don't want others in your network to stumble across while enjoying YouTube. It will not allow users to turn off the restricted mode.

[Read more about YouTube Safety mode on Gateway](#)

### YouTube API Integration With SafeSquid To Allow Specific YouTube Videos

[Read more about YouTube API Integration With SafeSquid To Allow Specific YouTube Videos](#)

### Allow Specific YouTube Channel and its Playlist

[Read more about Allow Specific YouTube Channel and its Playlist](#)

### Block Specific Youtube Channel

[Read more about Block Specific Youtube Channel](#)

## Mobile Applications

### Allow Android Facebook Application

[Read more about Allow Android Facebook Application](#)

## Profiled Internet Access

Your secure web gateway serves a variety of users and applications. Appropriate restrictions ensure the web access boosts efficiency, while curbing non-productive activities. SafeSquid enables you to define policies as access profiles and ensures compliance. Create policies for users based on their organizational hierarchy and business role to boost productivity.

[Read more about Profiled Internet Access](#)

## Enforce Safe Searches On Gateway 

World Wide Web provides extensive knowledge on almost every topic you can think of. Due to the vast information scattered around on the web, we sometimes find content that is irrelevant and inappropriate. We often come across adult/porn content accidentally while we are trying to find some information on the internet. This may be faced by children or by someone who isn't supposed to watch pornographic content. Search engines help us big time in searching for appropriate content, but can sometimes mislead us. To avoid this, Search engines have started providing an additional feature: Safe-Search. You can set up Safe Searches for different search engines like Google, Yahoo, Bing using SafeSquid.

[Read more about Enforce Safe Searches](#)

## Avoid Locking Yourself When You Are Configuring Policies In Access Restrictions

[Read more about Avoid Locking Yourself When You Are Configuring Policies In Access Restrictions](#)

## Defend Against Malware And External Attacks

[Read more about Defend Against Malware And External Attacks](#)

## Create And Manage Your Private Categories

Manage your website list by dividing them into specific categories. You can block or allow all websites using custom categories. You can manage your categories from the self-service portal also. Make a list of websites to allow or block in separate text files and upload them from the SafeSquid User Interface.

[Read more about Create And Manage Your Private Categories](#)

## Advantages Of Custom Web Categorization 

[Read more about Advantages Of Custom Web Categorization](#)

## Do Bandwidth Management With Limits

Define the uploading and downloading limits for specific users or for all users. For example, you want to restrict your users from downloading a file larger than a specified size.

[Read more about Do Bandwidth Management With Limits](#)

## Redirect One Website To Another Website

Strictly redirect one URL to another. This is very useful if you want to redirect a certain page to a new location, change the URL structure of a site, remove the "www." portion of the URL, or even redirect users to another website entirely. A redirect automatically sends your website's visitors to a chosen destination. By using this feature, you can achieve Safe Searches for different search engines.

[Read more about Redirect One Website To Another Website](#)

## Integrate FTP Servers With SafeSquid

Integrate your FTP server with SafeSquid. And also, you can set up authentication for FTP sites. You can enable or disable the passive mode also for FTP server access.

[Read more about Integrate FTP Servers With SafeSquid](#)

## Transparent Redirection With SafeSquid And WCCP

[Read more about Transparent Redirection With SafeSquid And WCCP](#)

## Bypass HTTPS Inspection Using Request Types

[Read more about Bypass HTTPS Inspection Using Request Types](#)

## G-Suite App Sync Setup With SafeSquid

[Read more about G Suite App Sync Setup With SafeSquid](#)

## Use Statistics To View SafeSquid Stats

[Read more about Use Statistics To View SafeSquid Stats](#)

## Accessing Business Applications Through SafeSquid

[Read more about Accessing Business Applications Through SafeSquid](#)

## Allow Outlook To Work Through SafeSquid

[Read more about Allow Outlook To Work Through SafeSquid](#)

### Manage Disk Space On SafeSquid Server

This article will help you free up disk space when any of the partitions on the SafeSquid server is full. If any partition is full, you will get errors like "disk space is full" and the SafeSquid server will not process any connections from clients.

[Read more about Manage Disk Space On SafeSquid Server](#)

## Bypassing Blocked Policies for Whitelisted Users

[Read more about Bypassing Blocked Policies for Whitelisted Users](#)

## Block Emails or Files Including Archives or Social Posts Using Keywords

[Read more about Block Emails or Files Including Archives or Social Posts Using Keywords](#)

## Allow Remote Applications to Particular Users

[Read more about Allow Remote Applications to Particular Users](#)

## Viewing SafeSquid UI from Outside Your Network

[Read more about Viewing SafeSquid UI from Outside Your Network](#)

## Split the Load Between Different ISPs

[Read more about Split the Load Between Different ISPs](#)

## Access Mobile Applications Through SafeSquid

[Read more about Access Mobile Applications Through SafeSquid](#)

## Access Remote Desktop Applications Through SafeSquid

[Read more about Access Remote Desktop Applications Through SafeSquid](#)

## Block Android Google PlayStore Application

[Read more about Block Android Google PlayStore Application](#)

## Generate Performance Plot From SafeSquid User Interface

[Read more about Generate Performance Plot from SafeSquid User Interface](#)

## Generation of Support Tarball

Network-related issues or issues regarding policy configuration can be rectified by generating a support tarball.

[Read more about Generation of Support Tarball](#)

## Setup Cloud Restore

SafeSquid Cloud restore feature is introduced as a disaster recovery plan (DRP). You can now recover your last configuration saved on cloud backup if any disaster occurs.

[Read more about Cloud Restore](#)

## Manage SafeSquid Instances From Self Service Portal

[Read more about Manage SafeSquid Instances From Self Service Portal](#)

## Analyze The SafeSquid Logs

SafeSquid contains four different types of logs. Each log file has its own importance.

[Read more about SafeSquid Logs](#)

## Installation Of Web Security Client

[Read more about Web Security Client Installation](#)

## Reporting (Dashboard)

[Read more about Reporting (Dashboard)](#)

## Setup Reporting Module

[Read more about Setup Reporting Module](#)

## Mail Integration with Reporting Module

[Read more about Mail Integration with Reporting Module](#)

## Debug The Specific Issue

This page will help you debug any problem faced during installation and post-installation.

[Read more about Debug The Specific Issue](#)

## Setup Transparent Proxy on SafeSquid

Set up SafeSquid in transparent proxy mode, so you can eliminate client-side configuration. Typically, the proxy server resides on the gateway and intercepts requests from clients. Clients don't know there's a proxy server mediating their requests.

[Read more about SafeSquid Transparent Proxy](#)

## How to Configure Reverse Proxy

[Read more about Reverse Proxy](#)

## Deploy SafeSquid Behind Corporate Proxy

Use SafeSquid server in proxy chain mode. With simple configuration, you can forward requests to the upstream proxy from SafeSquid proxy server.

[Read more about Deploy SafeSquid Behind Corporate Proxy](#)

## Installation Of Web Security Client

[Read more about Web Security Client Installation](#)

## Setup VPN with SafeSquid Web Security Client

[Read more about Configure VPN with SafeSquid Web Security Client](#)

## Setup Captive Portal on SafeSquid and Secure WIFI Access Through Active Directory Infrastructure

[Read more about Secure WIFI Access Through Active Directory Infrastructure And SafeSquid Captive Portal](#)



